{
    "id": "dbpedia_8566_1",
    "rank": 16,
    "data": {
        "url": "https://groups.google.com/g/kernel-meetup-bangalore/c/TZJj-ev1h1I",
        "read_more_link": "",
        "language": "en",
        "title": "July 2023 Linux kernel Meetup - Call for Proposal",
        "top_image": "https://www.gstatic.com/images/branding/product/1x/groups_32dp.png",
        "meta_img": "https://www.gstatic.com/images/branding/product/1x/groups_32dp.png",
        "images": [
            "https://fonts.gstatic.com/s/i/productlogos/groups/v9/web-48dp/logo_groups_color_1x_web_48dp.png",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVWUtzIg-fgHDWyhB6cxXXr6AWN0pvhpY_SuCKkl2ZgU-YzvA=s40-c-mo",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVIrkOKWE_wYVJtwf_6L6_vAmCmZBe8b3wtsUE4mNulAktcIavw=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjWhVDMcTjwlHKyIomqBOPcHe3tV6pwfY2c-v6lg5SPy5RQQgg=s40-c-mo",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjXOUKa3DJNADaNqiRjgbUkiHJ3UFUNqgXhn4ncM5gr40Gj417LB=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjUjrvYmYiq0bJxKJo57Ym8e_EBnyT1aBzN66O6_Ew12kvovebCS=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVWUtzIg-fgHDWyhB6cxXXr6AWN0pvhpY_SuCKkl2ZgU-YzvA=s40-c-mo",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjW8ukleR6pzU1UYrw13TSC6X5NXk4PBol9i79mOdsbwR4CGD6Hi7A=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjUPi5VsYIfB61VXAq9Vdfz9DwT4A3VQv5Ytu-Tn2te97jDMQKk=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjU-5SR5ygTQrgU2Y28aKM-eAAVerOYjlfS36mkrnifujPqp3Ql9=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjXK_0MIh81L2BfDtskbeFw1rrMBsHh9ssX1tUVVdVs5DbGUEQ=s40-c-mo",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVqCf1_Mfg0oKdupDIgqlwPJPYeOQTf5DYuHWxYZZx26syggsC4=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjUDigme6UzsmhQaymm0PDulr9tdyFFU45NUC_EGrlaCZ88wZw=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVYK0muRNuRuU1EtQ2dZHa8ELwwniV4LrcgnatCtn1ZryEI=s40-c-mo",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjU-DYM0jOiPVFizLiaz-cKGp6qxfIyAXPwLJ3JqZ0sE5KDVz44B=s40-c",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjVWUtzIg-fgHDWyhB6cxXXr6AWN0pvhpY_SuCKkl2ZgU-YzvA=s40-c-mo",
            "https://ci6.googleusercontent.com/proxy/RT8s3NphbGvyonXg1r-ACa0jtzamQM5JvfPunOyI6m1LNRlL2uGO8BC7nApWnU0ajPVmz9_Es9HFoYNo-sB06HoMX-RINe1pD44cYIHhR8_70Cm7a_dbyhlnFDJidKGQs5QCClQDY18IAwyMMBTO6tWm41bxO-zfNm8TIIllmdicV1mtc_FPTzXBuRSd-A=s0-d-e1-ft#https://statics.teams.cdn.office.net/evergreen-assets/personal-expressions/v2/assets/emoticons/smile/default/60_f.png?v=v82",
            "https://lh3.googleusercontent.com/a-/ALV-UjWiYCo4xHbsmyokCfSacD6wuFPTGSiHB01bgl4_TMo5kNeiAOr7=s40-c"
        ],
        "movies": [],
        "keywords": [],
        "meta_keywords": [
            ""
        ],
        "tags": null,
        "authors": [],
        "publish_date": null,
        "summary": "",
        "meta_description": "",
        "meta_lang": "en",
        "meta_favicon": "//www.gstatic.com/images/branding/product/1x/groups_32dp.png",
        "meta_site_name": "",
        "canonical_link": "https://groups.google.com/g/kernel-meetup-bangalore/c/TZJj-ev1h1I",
        "text": "Hello Everyone,\n\nWe have reached a deadline for talks submission. As Allen alluded to in his note, we are pleasantly surprised at the number and technical spread of talks being proposed.\n\nThat said, since we are organizing this event at an external venue, there is both a space and attendee constraint due to which we have not been able to accommodate everyone desirous of attending the event. Hopefully, the Bangalore Linux kernel community will find ways to overcome this good-to-have challenge.\n\nOn the topic of talks, as announced earlier, we will have a panel discussion featuring prominent kernel contributors attending the event. The are 5 slots for 40 minute talks with sufficient time for switchover and breaks. Due to constraints mentioned above, we cannot accommodate more entries at this time.\n\nAs organizers of the community event, we would like to have an equitable distribution of topics across organizations, technologies and architectures. There are a few proposals that are useful to everyone irrespective of these considerations - Rust, workqueues, qspinlock, for instance. Given that all proposals cannot be accommodated at this instance of the meetup, maybe some of these can flow into the next meetup instance. To decide on which talks make the cut, Aneesh Kumar (IBM), Vinod Koul (Linaro) and Nikunj Dadhania (AMD) would be the voting members for unbiased decision making and based on current upstream presence. (Viresh, Gautham, Neeraj, Ritesh and Bharata are active upstream members, but have topics proposed and so are not part of the decision making team).\n\nIt would be great to brainstorm on how to keep this community vibrant - volunteers anybody to host the next meetup?\n\nAnother thought to accommodate the proposals is to have a slot for lightening talks - everyone gets 5 minutes to pitch a topic, with a longer talk in a subsequent meetup.\n\nRegards,\n\nSantosh"
    }
}